# Day 5 of 401

## Implementation: Linked Lists

_I think this is perhaps supposed to be due at the end of the day, rather than 9 AM, but here's some answers from what I got from the reading:_

**Katy Roffe** taught me that a linked list is a linear data structure and similar to an array, but differs in that unlike arrays (which are static), they can be scattered about and grow dynamically.

**Myself** I have been looking forward to uncovering the secrets of Big O for a month and a half, ever since Hexx randomly mentioned it in a tutoring session. What I have gleaned from the reading is that Big O measures the rate of growth in the runtime of an algorithm as it relates to the increasing the complexity of an algorthim. There are 3 equations for measuring the Big O notation of algorthims: O(1), O(n) and O(n^2). - O(1) will be constant; no matter how much crap is added into the input, it'll always take the same amount of time. - O(n) will grow in a linear relationship to the growth in the input. - O(n^2) will grow exponentially in relation to the growth of the input.
We only use O(1) and O(n) when dealing with linked lists.

## Resources

## Read and save for reference

- [Big O: Analysis of Algorithm Efficiency](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-05/resources/big_oh.html) (Up through the section titled “Linear Complexity Growth”)

### Read

- [Linked Lists](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-05/resources/singly_linked_list.html)
- [What’s a Linked List, Anyway pt1](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-1-d8b7e6508b9d)
- [What’s a Linked List, Anyway pt2](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-2-131d96f71996)

## Things I want to know more about

back to [main page](README.md)
